===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP African American Studies
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course content and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP African American Studies Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP African American Studies student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Thu, May 7, 2026
12 PM Local
AP African American Studies Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP African American Studies Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions | 70 Minutes | 60% of Exam Score
Questions usually appear in sets of 3–4 questions.
Each set of questions includes 1 or 2 sources that serve as stimulus material.
Approximately half of the source material in this section will be drawn from required sources in the course framework. The remaining sources will be related to required course content but will not be sources that students will have directly studied as required content in the course.
Section IB: Individual Student Project—Exam Day Validation Question
1 Question
I
10 Minutes
I
1.5% of Exam Score
This question will present students with the opportunity to respond in writing to one of the project oral defense questions. Students will be asked to provide analysis, reflection, comparison, or evaluation of at least one of the sources they used for their course project.
Section II: Free Response
Short-Answer Questions
3 Questions | 40 Minutes | 18% of Exam Score
This section includes:
1 short-answer question based on a text source
1 short-answer question based on a visual source
1 short-answer question focused on a broad thematic course concept
Each question will include either three or four question parts and will assess student mastery of course content and skills.
Document-Based Question
1 Question | 45 Minutes | 12% of Exam Score
The document-based question presents students with five documents offering various perspectives on a historical development or process. The question requires students to do the following:
Respond to the prompt with a defensible thesis or claim that establishes a line of reasoning.
Describe a broader historical or disciplinary context relevant to the topic of the prompt.
Support an argument in response to the prompt using at least 3 of the sources.
Use at least 1 additional piece of specific evidence (beyond the evidence found in the sources) relevant to their argument.
For at least 2 sources, explain how or why the perspective, purpose, context, and/or audience for each source is relevant to their argument.
Reference or cite the sources used in their argument. They can reference or cite the source letter, title, or author.
The topic of the document-based question will be within the scope of the required content in the course framework.
Individual Student Project | 8.5% of Exam Score
Students complete a 3-week project where they define a research topic and line of inquiry, conduct independent research to analyze authentic sources from multiple disciplines, and develop and deliver a presentation about their selected topic.
Students present the results of their project to their teacher and class, and respond to questions from their teacher as part of an oral defense to demonstrate their understanding of how their sources and the information provided in those sources contributed to their understanding of their project topic.
Teachers score the project using a rubric provided by AP.
AP Digital Portfolio
Review these resources for guidance on how to use the AP Digital Portfolio and sign in.
Link
Sign In to the AP Digital Portfolio
Sign in to the AP Digital Portfolio using your College Board account.
Article
About the AP Digital Portfolio
Get an overview of what the AP Digital Portfolio is and how it works.
Download
AP Digital Portfolio: Teacher User Guide
Review this guide to learn how to navigate the AP Digital Portfolio and complete tasks specific to your courses.
PDF
2.12 MB
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Scoring guidelines for the short-answer and document-based questions are available in the
course and exam description
(CED).
Article
AP African American Studies Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Review free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP African American Studies
AP African American Studies
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP African American Studies
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP African American Studies Exam will test your understanding of the skills and learning objectives covered in the course, your ability to read and analyze primary and secondary sources, and to develop an evidence-based argument. The exam will also include one exam-day validation question based on your Individual Student Project and presentation.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
2hrs 45mins
Exam
Date
Thu, May 7, 2026
12 PM Local
AP African American Studies Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP African American Studies Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions
1hr 10mins
60% of Score
The questions in the multiple-choice section appear in sets of 3–4 questions based on a shared source or sources. These sources will be primary or secondary sources related to course content. Some of these sources will be from the required sources included in the course framework, and some will be sources that are new to you.
You will be asked to:
Read and analyze the sources
Analyze the developments, processes, and elements of African American Studies that are present in the sources
Section IB: Individual Student Project—Exam Day Validation Question
1 Question
10mins
1.5% of Score
This question will present you with the opportunity to respond in writing to one of the project oral defense questions. You’ll be asked to provide analysis, reflection, comparison, or evaluation of at least one of the sources you used for your course project.
Section II: Free Response
4 Questions
1hr 25mins
30% of Score
Short-Answer Questions
3 Questions | 40 mins | 18% of Score
In the short-answer section, you’ll respond to all parts of the questions in the provided field in the testing app. Some questions include texts, images, graphs, or maps.
This section includes:
1 short-answer question based on a text source
1 short-answer question based on a visual source
1 short-answer question focused on a broad course theme
You'll be asked to:
Analyze the provided sources
Analyze the developments, processes, and themes and put those developments and processes in context
Make connections between those developments and processes
Each question will include either three or four question parts and will assess your mastery of course content and skills.
Document-Based Question
1 Question | 45 mins | 12% of Score
The 45-minute recommended time includes time for reading and analyzing the documents.
You’ll be presented with 5 documents, each of which will offer a different perspective on a historical development or process related to African American Studies.
You’ll be asked to develop and support an argument based on these 5 documents in combination with other evidence from your own knowledge.
The document-based question will be focused on a topic related to the required content of the AP African American Studies course.
Individual Student Project
8.5% of Score
You’ll complete a 3-week project where you’ll define a research topic and line of inquiry, conduct independent research to analyze authentic sources from multiple disciplines, and develop and deliver a presentation about your selected topic.
You’ll present the results of your project to your teacher and
class, and
will respond to questions from your teacher as part of an oral defense to demonstrate your understanding of how your sources and the information provided in those sources contributed to your understanding of your project topic.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you can access AP Classroom to find select resources for AP African American Studies. More resources will be available throughout the year.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Download
AP African American Studies Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and the AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring information from past AP African American Studies Exams.
Go to AP Central
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores