Active Page:
About AP Career Kickstart
AP Career Kickstart
AP Career Kickstart™ courses build professional career skills and are designed to accelerate high school students on their paths to in-demand careers.
Request Information
What Is AP Career Kickstart?
AP Career Kickstart expands the AP Program by offering high schools a new group of career courses and exams that can be easily tailored to fit into existing career and technical education (CTE) programs of study. We’re partnering with employers, college faculty, and high school educators to design courses that can lead to college credit and employer-endorsed credentials, and prepare students for high-demand jobs.
Close Modal
Close
Explore Our Career Courses
Learn about the new AP Career Kickstart courses that are launching in 2026-27 and 2027-28.
AP Business with Personal Finance
Launching in 2026-27, this course builds workforce-ready skills in business and personal finance through projects and case studies.
Learn More About AP Business with Personal Finance
AP Cybersecurity
Launching in 2026-27, this course builds workforce-ready skills in cybersecurity through real-world scenarios.
Learn More About AP Cybersecurity
AP Networking
Launching in 2027-28, this course builds workforce-ready skills in networking through hands-on activities.
Learn More About AP Networking
Employer-Endorsed Credentials
AP Career Kickstart courses offer high school students the opportunity to earn credentials that validate professional career skills and meet industry needs.
Learn More About Our Credentials
Expand Your CTE Programs with AP Career Kickstart
AP Career Kickstart courses are designed to bring the nationally recognized college credit of AP to the applied learning of career and technical education (CTE).
Webinar: Uniting AP and CTE
Watch this webinar about how AP Career Kickstart courses build connections for students between college and career interests.
Register to Watch the Webinar
AP Career Kickstart CTE Pathways
Find out how these new AP courses fit into existing CTE programs and help more students get a head start on their careers.
Download the Flyer
Resources for Higher Education
Learn how College Board’s new group of AP career courses help to strengthen college-to-career pathways and how you can set credit and placement policies for these AP courses.
Learn More About Higher Education and AP Career Kickstart
AP Career Kickstart Timeline
2026
FALL 2026
AP Business with Personal Finance launches
Learn About the Course
2026
FALL 2026
AP Cybersecurity launches
Learn About the Course
2026
FALL 2026
AP Networking pilot for the 2026-27 school year begins
Explore the Course Framework
2027
MAY 2027
AP Business with Personal Finance, AP Cybersecurity Exams administered
2027
FALL 2027
AP Networking launches
2028
MAY 2028
AP Networking Exam administered
AP Career Kickstart in the News
Link
Education Week: There’s a New AP Business Course. College Board’s CEO Explains Why
Read this interview to learn about AP Business with Personal Finance—one of the two AP Career Kickstart courses launching in the 2026-27 school year—and how it prepares students to adapt to a changing future.
Go to Education Week
Link
U.S. Chamber, College Board Partner to Equip Students with Career Skills
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and College Board are partnering to better equip high school students with essential business skills, fostering a career-ready workforce and strengthening tomorrow’s economy.
Go to U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Link
Forbes: From Vocational Education to Career and Technical Education
Learn how AP Career Kickstart courses align with the new approach to CTE school-based programs and forge a path for more high school students to achieve academic and career success.
Go to Forbes
“I have found as a CHRO and a person who oversees learning in companies that people learn best through cases and practical application with discussion with peers. I also appreciate College Board’s corporate partnership to train entry-level candidates with these core concepts.”
Marguerite Eastwood, Chief Human Resources Officer, U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Stay Informed
Complete the interest form to request information and stay updated on AP Career Kickstart courses.
Request Information

