===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Business with Personal Finance
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
The AP Business with Personal Finance Exam assesses student understanding of the skills and learning objectives outlined in the course framework. The exam includes multiple-choice questions and free-response questions, one of which is an exam-day validation question about the student’s Business Canvas Project*.
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
For more information about how digital exams are administered, see
Digital AP Exams.
*Note:
The Business Canvas Project is a modified Business Model Canvas, which was developed by Strategyzer.com in 2005.
Exam Date
The 2027 AP Exam schedule will be available in June 2026.
Exam Format
The AP Business with Personal Finance Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions | 70 Minutes | 60% of Exam Score
Questions usually appear in sets of 3 or 4.
Each set of questions includes stimulus material that may include narrative summaries, data visualizations, financial statements, and job descriptions.
20–25% of the questions assess personal finance topics.
Units 1–4 and Skill Categories 1–4 are assessed.
Section II, Part A: Free-Response Question 1: Business Canvas Project Exam-Day Validation
1 Question | 25 Minutes | 15% of Exam Score
Students respond to questions about the execution of their Business Canvas Project. They will be asked to pitch their product idea, explain how they used hypothesis testing to inform a decision, and explain why a challenge that is frequently faced by entrepreneurs may represent a challenge to the viability of their product idea.
Content from Units 1–4 and Skill Categories 1, 2, and 4 may be assessed.
Section II, Part B: Free-Response Questions 2–4
3 Questions | 1 Hour, 5 Minutes | 25% of Exam Score
Free-Response Question 2:
Personal Finance
will provide students with a scenario that describes a fictional individual’s or household’s financial situation, including quantitative data and goals, and will assess students’ ability to interpret the data and explain how the individual or household could achieve their financial goals. Skill Categories 1 and 3 are assessed.
Free-Response Question 3: Business Concept Application
will provide students with a scenario that describes a fictional business that is gathering evidence to inform strategic planning, and it will assess students’ ability to interpret business data and explain how the business could achieve its goals. Skill Category 1 is assessed.
Free-Response Question 4:
Business Decision
will provide students with a scenario that describes a fictional business facing an opportunity or problem that requires the business to choose between two alternative courses of action, which are defined in the scenario in terms of their financial and nonfinancial implications. The question assesses students’ ability to establish decision-making criteria and use them to compare the two courses of action, as well as students’ ability to make and support a recommendation using reasoning and evidence from the scenario. Skill Category 3 is assessed.
Calculator Policy
Calculators are permitted for this course’s exam. Students can use either a handheld 4-function calculator or the built-in Desmos 4-function calculator through Bluebook.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
Additional Resources
Download
AP Business with Personal Finance Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for this course. Unit guides clearly lay out the course content and skills and recommend sequencing and pacing for them throughout the year.
PDF
9.22 MB
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Business with Personal Finance
AP Business with Personal Finance
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Business with Personal Finance
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Business with Personal Finance Exam will require application of essential skills in entrepreneurship, business finance, management, marketing, and personal finance, and it will leverage realistic scenarios to assess your ability to make evidence-based, contextually aware decisions.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam. The exam will include one free-response question about your Business Canvas Project.
Note:
The 2027 AP Exam dates will be available in summer
2026
.
Exam Duration
2hrs 40mins
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions
1hr 10mins
60% of Score
The questions in the multiple-choice section appear in sets of 3 or 4.
Each set of questions includes stimulus material that may include narrative summaries, data visualizations, financial statements, and job descriptions.
Section II, Part A: Free-Response Question 1: Business Canvas Project Exam-Day Validation
1 Question
25mins
15% of Score
You’ll respond to questions about the execution of your Business Canvas Project.
You’ll be asked to:
Pitch your product idea.
Explain how you used hypothesis testing to inform a decision.
Explain why a challenge that is frequently faced by entrepreneurs may represent a challenge to the viability of your product idea.
Section II, Part B: Free-Response Questions 2–4
3 Questions
1hr 05mins
25% of Score
Free-Response Question 2: Personal Finance
You’ll be provided with a scenario that describes a fictional individual’s or household’s financial situation, including quantitative data and goals, and respond to questions about it.
You'll be asked to:
Interpret provided data.
Explain how the individual or household could achieve their financial goals.
Free-Response Question 3: Business Concept Application
You’ll be provided with a scenario that describes a fictional business that is gathering evidence to inform strategic planning and respond to questions about it.
You'll be asked to:
Interpret provided business data.
Explain how the business could achieve its goals.
Free-Response Question 4: Business Decision
You’ll be provided with a scenario that describes a fictional business facing an opportunity or a problem that requires the business to choose between two alternative courses of action, which are defined in the scenario in terms of their financial and nonfinancial implications.
You’ll be asked to:
Establish decision-making criteria.
Use decision-making criteria to compare the two courses of action.
Recommend a course of action.
Support the recommended course of action using reasoning and evidence from the scenario.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Download
AP Business with Personal Finance Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and the AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores