===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Computer Science A
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam. The
Java Quick Reference (.pdf)
is included in Bluebook and lists the accessible methods from the Java library that may be included on the exam.
Schools can print this reference information and provide it to students on exam day.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP Computer Science A Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED). Scoring guidelines for each of the sample free-response questions in the CED are also available.
Encourage your students to visit the
AP Computer Science A student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Fri, May 15, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Computer Science A Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
Section I: Multiple Choice
42 Questions | 1 Hour 30 Minutes | 55% of Exam Score
The multiple-choice section includes mostly individual questions, occasionally with 1–2 sets of questions (2 questions per set).
Computational Thinking Practices 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 are all assessed in the multiple-choice section.
Section II: Free Response
4 Questions | 1 Hour 30 Minutes | 45% of Exam Score
All free-response questions assess Computational Thinking Practice 2: Develop Code, with the following focus:
Question 1:
Methods and Control Structures—Students will write 2 methods or 1 constructor and 1 method of a given class based on provided specifications and examples. In Part A the method or constructor will require students to write iterative or conditional statements, or both, as well as statements that call methods in the specified class. In Part B the method or constructor will require calling String methods.
Question 2:
Class Design—Students will be instructed to design and implement a class based on provided specifications and examples. A second class might also be included. Students will be provided with a scenario and specifications in the form of a table demonstrating ways to interact with the class and the results. The class must include a class header, instance variables, a constructor, a method, and implementation of the constructor and required method.
Question 3:
Data Analysis with ArrayList—Students will be provided with a scenario and its associated class(es). Students will write 1 method of a given class based on provided specifications and examples. The method requires students to use, analyze, and manipulate data in an ArrayList structure.
Question 4:
2D Array—Students will be provided with a scenario and its associated class(es). Students will write 1 method of a given class based on provided specifications and examples. The method requires students to use, analyze, and manipulate data in a 2D array structure.
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Reference Information
Reference materials are available for this course and will be printed and mailed to schools, in addition to being available in Bluebook in the test preview and on exam day.
Article
Reference Information for Specific AP Exams
Access reference sheets and exam day details.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP Computer Science A Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Computer Science A
AP Computer Science A
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Computer Science A
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Computer Science A Exam will test your understanding of the programming concepts covered in the course units, as well as your ability to read and write code for computer programs.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Reference materials, such as equations sheets and reference tables, are available for this course. Go to
Reference Information for Specific AP Exams
to find reference materials for AP Computer Science A and exam day details.
Exam Duration
3hrs
Exam
Date
Fri, May 15, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Computer Science A Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP Computer Science A Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section 1: Multiple Choice
42 questions
55% of Score
The multiple-choice section includes individual, single questions as well as occasional sets of 2 questions. You’ll be asked to:
Determine the required code segments to produce a given output
Identify the output, value, or result of given program code based on initial values
Analyze program code for correctness, equivalence, and errors
Describe the behavior and conditions that lead to results in a program
Section 2: Free Response
4 questions
45% of Score
In the free-response section, you’ll respond to four questions with written answers:
Question 1: Methods and Control Structures—You’ll be asked to write program code to create objects of a class and call methods, and satisfy method specifications using expressions, conditional statements, and iterative statements.
Question 2: Class Design—You’ll be asked to write program code to define a new type by creating a class and satisfy method specifications using expressions, conditional statements, and iterative statements.
Question 3: Data Analysis with
ArrayList
—You’ll be asked to write program code to satisfy method specifications and create, traverse, and manipulate elements in an
ArrayList
structure.
Question 4: 2D Array—You’ll be asked to write program code to satisfy method specifications and create, traverse, and manipulate elements in 2D array objects.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring guidelines from past AP Computer Science A exams.
Download
AP Computer Science A Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.
PDF
Download
AP Computer Science A Course and Exam Description Clarifications and Corrections
This document provides teachers with clarifications and/or corrections for the AP Computer Science A Course and Exam Description.
PDF
Link
Reference Information for Specific AP Exams
Access reference sheets and exam day details.
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores