===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Comparative Government and Politics
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP Comparative Government and Politics Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP Comparative Government and Politics student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Wed, May 6, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Comparative Government and Politics Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP Comparative Government and Politics Exam has question types and point values that remain stable and consistent from year to year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
55 Questions | 60 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Individual questions (no stimulus): 40–44 questions.
Set-based questions:
Quantitative Analysis:
3 sets of questions asking students to analyze a quantitative stimulus (line graphs, charts, tables, maps, or infographics)
Qualitative Analysis:
2 sets of questions asking students to analyze text-based secondary sources
The 6 countries addressed in AP Comparative Government and Politics are: China, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Russia, and the United Kingdom.
Section II: Free Response
4 Questions | 1 Hour 30 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Concept Application:
Define or describe a political concept and explain and/or compare political systems, principles, institutions, processes, policies, or behaviors.
Quantitative Analysis:
Analyze quantitative data, identify a trend or pattern, or draw a conclusion from a visual representation and explain how it relates to political systems, principles, institutions, processes, policies, or behaviors.
Comparative Analysis:
Compare political concepts, systems, institutions, or policies in different course countries.
Argument Essay:
Develop an argument in the form of an essay, using evidence from course countries related to the course concepts in the question prompt.
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP Comparative Government & Politics Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from this year's exams and past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Comparative Government and Politics
AP Comparative Government and Politics
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Comparative Government and Politics
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Comparative Government and Politics Exam will test your understanding of the political concepts covered in the course units, including your ability to compare political institutions and processes in different countries.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
2hrs 30mins
Exam
Date
Wed, May 6, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Comparative Government and Politics Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP Comparative Government and Politics Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section 1: Multiple Choice
55 questions
1hr
50% of Score
The multiple-choice section includes individual, single questions as well as sets of questions. Questions focus on the core countries of the course: China, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Russia, and the United Kingdom. You’ll be asked to:
Describe, explain, and compare political concepts and processes
Compare political concepts and processes of the course countries
Analyze data in graphs, charts, table, maps, or infographics
Read and analyze text passages
Section 2: Free Response
4 questions
1hr 30mins
50% of Score
In the free-response section, you’ll respond to four questions
with written answers. The section includes:
1 conceptual analysis question:
You’ll define or describe a political concept and/or compare political systems, principles, institutions, processes, policies, or behaviors.
1 quantitative analysis question:
You’ll analyze data to find patterns and trends and reach a conclusion.
1 comparative analysis question:
You’ll compare political concepts, systems, institutions, processes, or policies in two of the course countries.
1 argument essay:
You’ll write an evidence-based essay supporting a claim or thesis.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Download
AP Comparative Government and Politics Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and the AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review AP Comparative Government and Politics free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores