===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Cybersecurity
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
The AP Cybersecurity Exam assesses student understanding of the skills and learning objectives in the course framework. The exam includes multiple-choice and free-response questions.
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
For more information about how digital exams are administered, see
Digital AP Exams.
Exam Date
The 2027 AP Exam schedule will be available in June 2026.
Exam Format
The AP Cybersecurity Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions | 80 Minutes | 70% of Exam Score
The multiple-choice section includes individual questions as well as sets of 2, 3, or 4 questions.
Students analyze scenarios and digital evidence to identify vulnerabilities, recommend mitigations, and detect potential threats.
Students explain key concepts in cybersecurity.
Section II: Free Response
1 Question | 50 Minutes | 30% of Exam Score
The free-response question gives students different sources of information from the same device, including:
a set of firewall rules
several system and application logs
a list of files with their permissions
a device policy
Students will use these sources to determine security issues, attacks, and how the system is configured.
The questions ask students to:
explain parts of the policy
find signs of attacks in the logs
configure file permissions and firewall rules
Using evidence from the sources, students will also suggest ways to make the device more secure and show how they could fix or harden the device.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
Additional Resources
Download
AP Cybersecurity Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for this course. Unit guides clearly lay out the course content and skills and recommend sequencing and pacing for them throughout the year.
PDF
5.67 MB
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Cybersecurity
AP Cybersecurity
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Cybersecurity
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
Why Take the Course
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Cybersecurity Exam will assess essential technical skills in the cybersecurity field. The exam will put you in the position of an analyst, leveraging career-connected scenarios to test your skills and ability to make evidence-based, contextually aware decisions.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Note:
The 2027 AP Exam dates will be available in summer 2026.
Exam Duration
2hrs 10mins
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions
1hr 20mins
70% of Score
The multiple-choice section includes individual questions as well as sets of 2, 3, or 4 questions.
You’ll be asked to analyze scenarios and digital evidence to:
Apply foundational cybersecurity concepts to real-world situations.
Identify, classify, and assess vulnerabilities.
Recommend appropriate security controls or mitigations.
Detect potential attacks or indicators of compromise (IoCs).
Evaluate suspicious activity and determine whether it poses a security risk.
Interpret logs, network data, or system behaviors to draw conclusions about what may be happening in a system.
Section II: Free Response
1 Question
50mins
30% of Score
In this free-response question, you’ll be presented with several sources about a single device, such as:
security policies
firewall configurations
file-system permissions
network and application logs
You’ll analyze these sources together to:
Identify security issues.
Detect evidence of attacks.
Describe how configuration or permission changes would affect the device.
Evaluate how security controls such as firewalls or automated systems influence network traffic and device behavior.
You’ll be expected to cite evidence from the provided sources and explain your reasoning when describing attacks, permission settings, or the impact of policy or configuration modifications.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Download
AP Cybersecurity Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and the AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores