===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP English Literature and Composition
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP English Literature and Composition Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP English Literature and Composition student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Wed, May 6, 2026
8 AM Local
AP English Literature and Composition Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP English Literature and Composition Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines every year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day. There will also be a consistent range of difficulty in the reading passages across all versions of the exam from year to year. The free-response questions will be scored using analytic rubrics, rather than the previous holistic rubrics.
Section I: Multiple Choice
55 Questions | 1 Hour | 45% of Exam Score
Includes 5 sets of questions with 8–13 questions per set.
Each set is preceded by a passage of prose fiction, drama, or poetry of varying difficulty.
The multiple-choice section will always include at least 2 prose fiction passages (this may include drama) and at least 2 poetry passages.
Section II: Free Response
3 Questions | 2 Hours | 55% of Exam Score
Students write essays that respond to 3 free-response prompts from the following categories:
A literary analysis of a given poem
A literary analysis of a given passage of prose fiction (this may include drama)
An analysis that examines a specific concept, issue, or element in a work selected by the student. In responding to Question 3, students should select a work of fiction that will be appropriate to the question. A general rule is to use a work that is similar in quality to those they have read in their AP class(es).
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Scoring Rubrics
Download
AP English Literature and Composition Rubrics with Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
This document features general scoring criteria that apply to each of the three free-response questions, regardless of specific question prompt.
PDF
228.06 KB
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP English Literature and Composition Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP English Literature and Composition
AP English Literature and Composition
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP English Literature and Composition
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP English Literature and Composition Exam will test your understanding of the literary concepts covered in the course units, as well as your ability to analyze texts and develop written arguments based on your interpretations.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
3hrs
Exam
Date
Wed, May 6, 2026
8 AM Local
AP English Literature and Composition Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP English Literature and Composition Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section 1: Multiple Choice
55 questions
45% of Score
There are 5 sets of questions made up of 8–13 questions each.
Questions include excerpts from prose fiction, drama, or poetry. Each excerpt is accompanied by several multiple-choice questions.
There will be at least 2 prose fiction passages (this may include drama) and at least 2 poetry passages.
Section 2: Free Response
3 questions
55% of Score
In the free-response section, you’ll respond to three questions from the following categories with written answers:
Poetry analysis: You will read a passage of poetry and respond to the prompt with a thesis that presents a poetic interpretation backed up by evidence.
Prose fiction analysis: You will read a passage of prose fiction (this may include drama) and respond to the prompt with a thesis that presents a literary interpretation backed up by evidence.
Literary argument: You will be presented with a literary concept or idea and analyze how the literary concept or idea contributes to an interpretation of a literary work. You can choose one from a list of roughly 40 works provided to you or cite another work of prose fiction or drama from your own reading to create an evidence-based argument that responds to the given topic. In responding to Question 3, select a work of fiction that will be appropriate to the question. A general rule is to use a work that is similar in quality to those you have read in your AP class(es).
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review AP English Literature and Composition free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Download
AP English Literature and Composition Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores