===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP English Language and Composition
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP English Language and Composition Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP English Language and Composition student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Wed, May 13, 2026
8 AM Local
AP English Language and Composition Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP English Language and Composition Exam has question types and point values that stay consistent from year to year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
45 Questions | 1 hour | 45% of Exam Score
Includes 5 sets of questions:
23–25 Reading questions that ask students to read and analyze nonfiction texts.
20–22 Writing questions that ask students to “read like a writer” and consider revisions to stimulus texts.
Section II: Free Response
3 Questions | 2 hours 15 minutes (includes a 15-minute reading period | 55% of Exam Score
Students write essays that respond to 3 free-response prompts from the following categories:
Synthesis Question:
After reading 6 texts about a topic (including visual and quantitative sources), students will compose an argument that combines and cites at least 3 of the sources to support their thesis.
Rhetorical Analysis:
Students will read a nonfiction text and analyze how the writer’s language choices contribute to the intended meaning and purpose of the text.
Argument:
Students will create an evidence-based argument that responds to a given topic.
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Scoring Rubrics
Download
AP English Language and Composition Rubrics with Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
This document features general scoring criteria that apply to each of the three free-response questions, regardless of specific question prompt.
PDF
224.81 KB
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP English Language and Composition Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP English Language and Composition
AP English Language and Composition
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP English Language and Composition
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP English Language and Composition Exam will test your understanding of the concepts covered in the course units, as well as your ability to analyze texts and develop written arguments.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
3hrs 15mins
Exam
Date
Wed, May 13, 2026
8 AM Local
AP English Language and Composition Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP English Language and Composition Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section 1: Multiple Choice
45 questions
45% of Score
Excerpts from nonfiction texts are accompanied by several multiple-choice questions:
23–25 Reading questions:
You’ll be asked to read and analyze nonfiction texts.
20–22 Writing questions:
You’ll be asked to read like a writer and consider revisions to the text.
Section 2: Free Response
3 questions
55% of Score
The 2 hour and 15 minute time limit for this section includes a 15-minute reading period.
In the free-response section, you’ll respond to three questions with written answers. This section tests your skill in composition in three areas:
Synthesis:
After reading 6 texts about a topic (including visual and quantitative sources), you will compose an argument that combines and cites at least 3 of the sources to support your thesis.
Rhetorical analysis:
You will read a nonfiction text and analyze how the writer’s language choices contribute to the intended meaning and purpose of the text.
Argument:
You will create an evidence-based argument that responds to a given topic.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Download
AP English Language and Composition Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores