===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Human Geography
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP Human Geography Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP Human Geography student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Tue, May 5, 2026
8 AM Local
AP Human Geography Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP Human Geography Exam has question types and point values that will remain stable from year to year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 Questions | 1 Hour | 50% of Exam Score
Individual questions.
Set-based questions.
Approximately 30%–40% of the multiple-choice questions will reference stimulus material, including maps, tables, charts, graphs, images, infographics, and/or landscapes, roughly evenly divided between quantitative and qualitative sources.
Section II: Free Response
3 Questions | 1 Hour 15 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Each free-response question presents students with an authentic geographic situation or scenario and assesses students’ ability to describe, explain, and apply geographic concepts, processes, or models, as they analyze geographic patterns, relationships, and outcomes in applied contexts.
Question 1 does not include any stimuli.
Question 2 includes 1 stimulus (data, image, or map).
Question 3 includes 2 stimuli (data, images, and/or maps).
At least one of the free-response questions assess students’ ability to analyze across geographic scales to explain spatial relationships.
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP Human Geography Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Human Geography
AP Human Geography
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Human Geography
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Human Geography Exam will test your understanding of the geographic concepts covered in the course units, as well as your ability to analyze maps, geospatial data, infographics, and more.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
2hrs 15mins
Exam
Date
Tue, May 5, 2026
8 AM Local
AP Human Geography Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP Human Geography Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section I: Multiple Choice
60 questions
1hr
50% of Score
The multiple-choice section includes individual questions as well as sets of questions. You’ll be asked to:
Analyze geographic concepts, processes, patterns, and relationships
Analyze geographic data from maps, tables, charts, graphs, satellite images, and infographics.
Interpret geographic information represented visually in maps, satellite images, photographs, cartoons, and landscapes.
Analyze spatial relationships using geographic scales
Section II: Free Response
3 questions
1hr 15mins
50% of Score
In the free-response section, you’ll respond to three questions with written answers. All three will present an authentic geographic situation or scenario, and at least two will ask you to explain and analyze spatial relationships across geographic scales.
The first question will have text only.
The second question will ask you to analyze and/or interpret data, an image, or a map.
The third question will feature two stimuli, which will include data, images, and/or maps.
At least one of the free-response questions assesses your ability to analyze across geographic scales to explain spatial relationships.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Article
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access AP Daily videos, any assignments from your teacher, and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring information from past AP Human Geography exams.
Download
AP Human Geography Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores