===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Latin
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Overview
Find exam dates, details, and resources for the AP Latin Exam.
This exam includes the following:
Course project
: Students engage in project-based analysis of four nonsyllabus passages of Latin text and complete two in-class project checkpoint tasks. Teacher-submitted scores for those checkpoints contribute to 2% of students’ final AP exam score.
End-of-course exam
: A fully digital exam in Bluebook, comprised of multiple-choice questions and free-response questions.
E
xam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP Latin Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP Latin student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Mon, May 4, 2026
8 AM Local
AP Latin Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
Section I: Multiple Choice
52 Questions | 1 Hour 5 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Discrete Questions: Sight Prose and Poetry (20 questions)
Short Sets: Sight Prose and Poetry (3 questions each, 6 questions total)
Short Sets: Syllabus Prose and Poetry (3 questions each, 6 questions total)
Long Sets: Syllabus Prose and Poetry (10 questions each, 20 questions total)
Students will be asked to:
define Latin words and phrases
identify the meaning of Latin words and phrases in context
use specific terminology to identify grammatical forms and syntactical structures
demonstrate knowledge of Latin syntax to read and comprehend Latin texts
demonstrate overall comprehension of passages in Latin texts
scan dactylic hexameter in Latin poetry
identify stylistic features in Latin poetry and prose
demonstrate knowledge of Roman culture, mythology, and historical events
Section II: Free Response
5 Questions | 1 Hour 55 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Question 1: Short Answer (6-8 subquestions)
Question 2: Translation (15 segments)
Question 3: Short Essay (2 subquestions)
Question 4: Project Prose Passage Short Essay (2 subquestions)
Question 5: Project Poetry Passage Short Essay (2 subquestions)
Course Project—In-Class Checkpoints | 2% of Exam Score
Students examine four project passages as part of the in-class course project and complete 2 checkpoint tasks. Teachers submit their scores for students’ checkpoints in the Digital Portfolio.
Checkpoint 1: Students create a written draft summary of 1 of the 4 project passages.
Checkpoint 2: Students create a product that presents an interpretation of 1 of the 4 project passages and support that interpretation with evidence drawn from the Latin text and their knowledge about the passage.
AP Digital Portfolio
Review these resources for guidance on how to use the AP Digital Portfolio and sign in.
Link
Sign In to the AP Digital Portfolio
Sign in to the AP Digital Portfolio using your College Board account.
Article
About the AP Digital Portfolio
Get an overview of what the AP Digital Portfolio is and how it works.
Download
AP Digital Portfolio: Teacher User Guide
Review this guide to learn how to navigate the AP Digital Portfolio and complete tasks specific to your courses.
PDF
2.12 MB
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP Latin Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Latin
AP Latin
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Latin
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Latin Exam will test your understanding of the Latin literary concepts covered in the course units, as well as your ability to translate Latin texts into English.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
3hrs
Exam
Date
Mon, May 4, 2026
8 AM Local
AP Latin Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP Latin Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section 1: Multiple-Choice Questions
52 questions
1hr 05mins
50% of Score
This section tests your understanding of the
poetry and prose readings
from the course syllabus, as well as your ability to
read at sight.
Questions also require you to relate the Latin texts to Roman historical, cultural, and literary contexts.
You’ll see the following 4 types of questions:
Discrete Questions:
Sight Prose and Poetry (20 questions)
Short Sets:
Sight Prose and Poetry (3 questions each, 6 questions total)
Short Sets:
Syllabus Prose and Poetry (3 questions each, 6 questions total)
Long Sets:
Syllabus Prose and Poetry (10 questions each, 20 questions total)
Section 2: Free-Response Questions
5 questions
1hr 55mins
50% of Score
The free-response section includes 5 types of questions:
1 short answer question:
You’ll receive a passage from the syllabus and be asked to answer 6-8 questions about the passage.
1 translation question:
You’ll be asked to literally translate a short passage from the syllabus.
1 short essay question:
You’ll receive a short passage from the syllabus and be asked to respond to a short answer question and write a short essay interpreting the passage using specific supporting evidence.
2 short essay questions:
You’ll receive 1 prose and 1 poetry passage from the course project passages and be asked to summarize and interpret the passages using specific supporting evidence.
Course Project: In-Class Checkpoints
2 In-class checkpoint tasks | 2% of free-response section score
You will examine four passages as part of the in-class course project and complete two checkpoint tasks prior to the exam. These checkpoints will be scored by your teacher.
Checkpoint 1:
You’ll be asked to write a summary of 1 of the 4 project passages.
Checkpoint 2:
You’ll be asked to create a product that presents an interpretation of 1 of the 4 project passages using evidence from the Latin text.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Download
AP Latin Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course, revised for 2025-26. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.
PDF
Download
AP Latin Course and Exam Description Clarifications and Corrections
This document provides teachers with clarifications and/or corrections for the AP Latin Course and Exam Description.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores