===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Music Theory
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Clarifications and Exam Updates for 2026-27
The AP Music Theory Course and Exam Description has been updated to include minor clarifications for the 2026-27 school year. These clarifications refine the wording of select essential knowledge statements to align with current music theory practices and college-level coursework.
Starting in May 2027, the AP Music Theory Exam will move to a hybrid digital format through the Bluebook digital testing app, with no changes to the exam structure.
Learn More (.pdf)
Exam Overview
In this exam, students complete the multiple-choice and written free-response sections on paper and record their sight-singing free response on a device supplied by the testing school.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP Music Theory Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP Music Theory student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Mon, May 11, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Music Theory Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP Music Theory Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines every year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
75 Questions | ~1 Hour 20 Minutes | 45% of Exam Score
Approximately 13 sets of 4–6 questions.
Approximately 10–12 individual multiple-choice questions.
Questions that assess students’ ability to use symbols and terms to describe features, procedures, and relationships in performed music.
Students will also be assessed on their ability to detect discrepancies in pitch and rhythm when comparing notated and performed music.
Questions that assess students’ ability to use symbols and terms to describe features, procedures, and relationships in notated music.
All stimulus materials represent a variety of historical style periods, including baroque, classical, romantic, late 19th or 20th century, and contemporary (world music, jazz, or pop).
Both instrumental and vocal music are represented.
Section IIA: Free Response: Written
7 questions | ~1 hour and 10 minutes | 45% of Exam Score
The seven questions include:
2 melodic dictation
2 harmonic dictation
1 part writing from figured bass
1 part writing from Roman numerals
1 composition of a bass line/harmonization of a melody
Section IIB: Free Response: Sight Singing
2 questions | ~10 minutes | 10% of Exam Score
The student will be asked to sing and record two brief, primarily diatonic melodies (of about 4–8 bars).
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP Music Theory Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Music Theory
AP Music Theory
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Music Theory
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Music Theory Exam will test your understanding of the musical concepts covered in the course units, including your ability to analyze performed and notated music and to sing melodies from a written score (sight sing).
In this exam, you’ll complete the multiple-choice and written free-response sections on paper, and you’ll record your sight-singing free response on a device supplied by the testing school.
Exam Duration
~
2hrs 40mins
Exam
Date
Mon, May 11, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Music Theory Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP Music Theory Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section 1: Multiple Choice
75 questions
45% of Score
There are two types of multiple-choice questions on the exam:
Questions based on aural stimulus test your listening skill and knowledge about theory largely in the context of examples from actual musical scores.
Some questions will cover identification of isolated pitch and rhythmic patterns, while others may test your skill in aural analysis of more complex musical excerpts.
(41–43 questions, ~45 minutes)
Questions based on analysis of printed music scores emphasize knowledge of score analysis, including small-scale and large-scale harmonic procedures; melodic organization and developmental procedures; rhythmic/metric organization; texture; and formal devices and/or procedures. You may also see questions about musical terminology, notational skills, and basic compositional skills. (32–34 questions, 35 minutes)
There are 10–12 individual questions and 13 sets made up of 4–6 questions each.
All stimulus materials throughout the exam represent a variety of historical style periods, including baroque, classical, romantic, late 19th or 20th century, and contemporary (world music, jazz, or pop). Both instrumental and vocal music are represented.
Section 2A: Free Response: Written
7 questions
45% of Score
The seven questions include:
2 melodic dictation questions
2 harmonic dictation questions
1 question about part writing from figured bass
1 question about part writing from Roman numerals
1 question about harmonization of a melody
Section 2B: Free Response: Sight-Singing
2 questions
10% of Score
You’ll be asked to sing and record two brief, primarily diatonic melodies (of about 4–8 bars).
You will have 75 seconds to examine and practice each melody and 30 seconds to perform it.
You may sing the melody beginning with the given starting pitch or another pitch in a range that is more comfortable.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions, scoring information, audio prompts, and audio transcripts from past AP Music Theory exams.
Download
AP Music Theory Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores