===== central =====
Active Page:
AP Networking
AP CAREER KICKSTART
Adopt AP Networking
This new AP career course helps students develop the technical and professional career skills needed to build, manage, and secure computer networks.
What Is AP Networking?
Developed with college faculty and industry leaders, AP Networking is a yearlong course that combines college-level learning with practical, career-connected skill building. Through hands-on activities and real-world scenarios, students learn how devices communicate, how networks are configured and maintained, how data is transmitted reliably and securely across systems, and how to troubleshoot problems with devices and networks. The course offers students the opportunity to earn college credit and an employer-endorsed credential.
Learn More About the Course
Why Offer the Course?
Networking skills are essential across today’s technology-driven economy. Launching in 2027-28, AP Networking will prepare students for in-demand opportunities in information technology and related fields while expanding access to college-level coursework. Plus, the course can be easily tailored to fit into existing career and technical education (CTE) programs of study, helping schools support both college and career readiness.
AP Networking Exam
Students with qualifying exam scores will earn two benefits.
College Credit and Placement
Students with qualifying exam scores can earn credit at colleges and universities.
Employer-Endorsed Credential
Students with qualifying exam scores earn a credential they can apply toward further training or in the workforce.
Learn More About the Exam
Pilot and Course Framework
AP Networking will be in its third and final pilot in 2026-27. Find details about the pilot and explore the course framework.
AP Networking Pilot for 2026-27
Find information and resources for the pilot.
Get Pilot Details
AP Networking Course Framework
Review course details in the course framework.
Download the Framework
===== student =====
Page not found – AP Students | College Board
AP Students
Home
Getting Started
What Is AP?
Choosing Your AP Courses
How to Sign Up for an AP Course
AP Around the World
How to Access Your AP Resources
AP Courses & Exams
Taking Exams
2026 AP Exam Dates
What to Know About AP Exams
Digital Portfolios
Exam Accommodations
Exam Policies
Register for AP Exams
Scores
View Your Scores
Sending Scores
About AP Scores
AP Score Reporting Services
AP Awards & Recognitions
Credit & Placement
Getting Credit and Placement
Credit Policy Search
Help
Calendar
More
Display Site Navigation
Sorry, this page isn't available.
The page is missing or the link is broken.
Check the URL and try again or go back to the homepage.
Home