===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP Spanish Literature and Culture
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Exam Updates for 2027
The AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam will move to a fully digital format in May 2027, with no changes to the exam structure.
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP Spanish Literature and Culture Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED) and the
CED’s companion audio files.
Encourage your students to visit the
AP Spanish Literature and Culture student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Wed, May 13, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section IA: Multiple Choice
15 Questions | 20 Minutes | 10% of Exam Score
This section includes 3 sets of questions based on authentic audio texts including:
An excerpt from an interview with an author
A recited poem that is not on the required reading list
A presentation on a literary topic related to course content
Students will have time to skim the questions for each set before listening to the audio.
The interview and presentation will be played once; the recited poem will be played twice.
Section IB: Multiple Choice
50 Questions | 1 Hour | 40% of Exam Score
This section includes 6 sets of 7–10 questions based on readings from a variety of genres, periods, and places in the Spanish-speaking world.
Readings include:
Works from the required reading list
Works outside the required reading list
1 passage of literary criticism regarding a work or author from the list
1 set will contain 2 passages that are related by theme—one of those passages is taken from the required reading list and the other is from a non-required text.
Section II: Free Response
4 Questions | 1 Hour, 40 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
2 Short-Answer Questions. Suggested time: 15 minutes each (~30 minutes).
Text Explanation: Students read an excerpt from a text on the required reading list, identify the author and period of the text, and explain the development of a given theme found within the excerpt in relation to the whole work from which the excerpt is taken.
Text and Art Comparison: Students read an excerpt from a text on the required reading list and study an image of a work of art (e.g., a painting, photograph, sculpture, or drawing) related by theme to the text. They are asked to compare how a particular theme is represented in both the text and the image, and then to connect that theme to the genre, period, or movement of the text.
2 Essay Questions. Suggested time: 35 minutes each (~70 minutes).
Analysis of a Single Text: Students read an excerpt from a text on the required reading list and then analyze how the text represents the characteristics of a particular genre as well as a particular historical, cultural, or social context.
Text Comparison: Students read 2 excerpts related by theme, one from a text on the required list, the other from a text not on the list and analyze the effect of literary devices that the authors use in the texts to develop a particular theme that is provided in the question prompt.
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP Spanish Literature and Culture
AP Spanish Literature and Culture
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP Spanish Literature and Culture
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam will test your understanding of the literary and cultural concepts presented in the course units, as well as your ability to apply what you learned from the required texts to interpret and analyze other non-required texts.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the
exam
.
Exam Duration
3hrs
Exam
Date
Wed, May 13, 2026
12 PM Local
AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP Spanish Literature and Culture Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section IA: Multiple Choice Interpretive Listening
15 questions
20mins
10% of Score
This section includes
3 sets of questions
based on
authentic audio texts
including:
An excerpt from an interview with an author
A recited poem that is not on the required reading list
A presentation on a literary topic related to course content
You will have time to skim the questions for each set before listening to the audio.
The interview and presentation will be played once; the recited poem will be played twice.
Section IB: Multiple Choice Reading Analysis
50 questions
1hr
40% of Score
This section includes
6 sets of 7–10 questions
based on
readings
from a variety of genres, periods, and places in the Spanish-speaking world.
Readings include:
Works from the required reading list
Works outside the required reading list
A passage of literary criticism regarding a work or author from the list
One set
will contain
2 passages that are related by theme
—one of those passages is taken from the required reading list and the other is from a non-required text.
Section II: Free Response
4 questions
1hr 40mins
50% of Score
The free-response section includes
two short-answer questions
and
two long-essay questions:
2 Short-Answer Questions
: Suggested time: 15 minutes each (~30 minutes)
Text Explanation
: You’ll read an excerpt from a text on the required reading list, identify the author and period of the text, and explain the development of a given theme found within the excerpt in relation to the whole work from which the excerpt is taken.
Text and Art Comparison
: You’ll read an excerpt from a text on the required reading list and study an image of a work of art (e.g., a painting, photograph, sculpture, or drawing) related by theme to the text. You will compare how a particular theme is represented in both the text and the image, and then connect that theme to the genre, period, or movement of the text.
2 Essay Questions
: Suggested time: 35 minutes each (~70 minutes)
Analysis of a Single Text
: You’ll read an excerpt from a text on the required reading list and then analyze how the text represents the characteristics of a particular genre as well as a particular historical, cultural, or social context.
Text Comparison
: You’ll read 2 excerpts related by theme—one from a text on the required list, the other from a text not on the list—and analyze the effect of literary devices that the authors use in the texts to develop a particular theme that is provided in the question prompt.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring information from past AP Spanish Literature and Culture exams.
Download
AP Spanish Literature and Culture Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for this course. It clearly lays out the course content and learning objectives, describes the exam, and provides sample questions and rubrics.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores