===== central =====
Active Page:
The Exam
The Exam
AP United States Government and Politics
Sign In to AP Classroom
Article
Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam
The Course
Course Audit
Classroom Resources
The Exam
Professional Learning
Additional Required Foundational Documents for 2026-27
The AP U.S. Government and Politics Course and Exam Description has been updated to include four additional required foundational documents. These documents strengthen alignment with college-level courses.
Learn More (.pdf)
Exam Overview
This is a fully digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the
AP U.S. Government and Politics Course and Exam Description (.pdf)
(CED).
Encourage your students to visit the
AP U.S. Government and Politics student page
for exam information.
Exam Date
Tue, May 5, 2026
12 PM Local
AP U.S. Government and Politics Exam
Add
to Calendar
Exam Format
The AP U.S. Government and Politics Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines every year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
55 Questions | 1 Hour 20 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Individual questions (no stimulus): ~30
Set-based questions
Quantitative Analysis
: Analysis and application of quantitative-based source material
Qualitative Analysis
: Analysis and application of text-based (primary and secondary) sources
Visual Analysis
: Analysis and application of qualitative visual information
Section II: Free Response
4 Questions | 1 Hour 40 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Concept Application
: Respond to a political scenario, describe and explain the effects of a political institution, behavior, or process
Quantitative Analysis
: Analyze quantitative data, identify a trend or pattern, or draw a conclusion from a visual representation and explain how it relates to a political principle, institution, process, policy, or behavior
SCOTUS Comparison
: Compare a nonrequired Supreme Court case with a required Supreme Court case, explaining how information from the required case is relevant to the nonrequired one
Argument Essay
: Develop an argument in the form of an essay, using evidence from required foundational documents and course concepts
Test Previews for Digital AP Exams
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Exam Questions and Scoring Information
Article
AP U.S. Government and Politics: Exam Questions and Scoring Information
View free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.
Score Reporting
Link
AP Score Reports for Educators
Access your score reports.
===== student =====
Active Page:
AP United States Government and Politics
AP United States Government and Politics
Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.
Go to My AP
See How to Join Your Class
Not a Student?
Go
to AP Central
for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.
AP United States Government and Politics
About the Course
About the Exam
Go to My AP
About the Course
About the Exam
About
the Exam
The AP U.S. Government and Politics Exam will test your understanding of the political concepts covered in the course units, including your ability to analyze the foundational documents and to apply Supreme Court decisions you studied in the course to real-life scenarios.
This is a fully digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice and free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app, with all responses automatically submitted at the end of the exam.
Exam Duration
3hrs
Update: Roe v. Wade
Although the Supreme Court recently overturned
Roe v. Wade
, it remains required course content and is part of Topic 3.9, “Amendments: Due Process and the Right to Privacy” along with two additional cases,
Griswold v. Connecticut
(1965) and
Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization
(2022). Any of these cases can be the focus of AP Exam questions related to this topic, but none of them will be the focus of Free Response Question 3.
-->
Exam
Date
Tue, May 5, 2026
12 PM Local
AP U.S. Government and Politics Exam
This is the regularly scheduled date for the AP United States Government and Politics Exam.
Details
Add
to Calendar
Exam Components
Expand All
Collapse All
Section I: Multiple Choice
55 questions
1hr 20mins
50% of Score
The multiple-choice section includes individual, single questions as well as sets of questions. You’ll be asked to:
Describe, explain, and compare political concepts and processes
Apply Supreme Court decisions in real-life scenarios
Analyze data in graphs, charts, tables, maps, or infographics
Read and
analyze foundational documents and other text-based and visual sources
Section II: Free Response
4 questions
1hr 40mins
50% of Score
In the free-response section, you’ll respond to four questions with written answers. The section includes:
1 concept application question:
You’ll describe and explain the effects of a political institution, behavior, or process, and apply concepts in a new situation.
1 quantitative analysis question:
You’ll analyze data in the form of a table, graph, map, or infographic to find patterns and trends and reach a conclusion.
1 SCOTUS comparison question:
You’ll compare a nonrequired Supreme Court case with a required one, explaining how information from the required case is relevant to the nonrequired one.
The prompt specifies 1 required SCOTUS case, and you are asked to identify how that required case is related to the case given in the scenario.
1 argument essay:
You’ll write an evidence-based essay supporting a claim or thesis.
Exam
Essentials
See Exam Day Policies
Read About Accommodations
Exam
Preparation
Link
AP Classroom Resources
Once you join your AP class section online, you’ll be able to access course project materials along with any assignments from your teacher and your assignment results in AP Classroom. Sign in to access them.
Go to AP Classroom
Link
Practice on Bluebook
Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.
Link
Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information
Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring information from past AP United States Government and Politics exams.
Download
AP United States Government and Politics Course and Exam Description
This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and the AP Program in general.
PDF
Link
Services for Students with Disabilities
Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 212-713-8333 or by email at
[email protected]
. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.
Credit and Placement
Search AP Credit Policies
Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.
Start a Search
Additional Information
Register for AP Exams
How to Practice for AP Exams
What to Bring on AP Exam Day
View Your AP Scores
Sending AP Scores